>> Kevin Powell: On this topic
of organization and everything,
I do want to talk about layers,
sub layers and scope.
So the first thing we talked
about this very early on,
when I started with the layers.
We can define all of the layers at
the beginning, if we want to, and
then just use them below.
And that first declaration is what's
actually setting the order of them for
how important they are.
The first ones, the least important, the
one at the end is the most important, so
it has the highest precedence.
So that's one way we can
organize our layers,
I've mentioned sublayers a bunch of times,
but I haven't really been using them,
just because I feel like in this
situation, I didn't really need them.
And I feel like it makes you ask more
questions sometimes [LAUGH] Along the way.
And you spend more time trying to
get organized with everything,
rather than just throwing it in there and
making it work.
So you do wanna balance that out,
but as a project grows,
you might think about refactoring
a little bit to introduce sublayers.
Sublayers work exactly
the same way as layers, but
within like the scope of the parent
layer that they're inside of.
So you could have your root here and your
general styling just to be more organized,
you won't run into any conflicts there,
so it's really just about organization.
The other thing though that you
don't want to do is use layers
as a scoping mechanism.
And I'm saying that because this
is one thing that I see people
doing sometimes, is.
They'll do components, and
then they have their cards, and
then they have their buttons.
So they're trying to make a layer
based on exactly what that
class is that's inside of it.
And it feels like that's sort
of what layers should do,
alot of people went to this early on, but
there's drawbacks to doing this because
of the way that the specificity works.
Within layers, because layers are really
about organizing specificity.
They're not about organizing, so we have,
yeah, it's just easier to overwrite.
We're less worried about how specific
a selector is, because I know my utility
class is always the highest precedent and
I can overwrite it.
But because they have that impact on
specificity, the example is right here,
if I did my cards.
And I had this really high level selector
here to put the background color of
a button in a card to be yellow.
And then I did another layer down here
where I'm saying the background would be
purple.
The background would be purple,
even though this is a lower,
it looks lower specificity,
but this sub layer is higher precedence
because it comes after my cards here.
So all of a sudden,
your generic button comes into play, and
then the order of things matters again,
and it becomes a lot bigger of a mess, and
it just gets really complicated.
So just to highlight that here quickly,
we can see it in action,
where it lets us come on my,
we'll just do this in the base layer for
fun, you don't have to replicate
this is just going to highlight
the problems that you can
run into with sub layers.
So say, I came here and I said,
this is my layer of typography,
or heading.
Yeah, we'll do type, typography, and
then over here I do an at layer of,
we'll do a utilities one here as well,
type, how old call it helpers,
or something like that.
So my typography one, I might come in
with a specific one of section title.
And then I do the section title is
going to be a background of blue.
I don't know why we would do that,
but just so we can see it on the page.
And then maybe even this is like
my only if it's an H2, again,
we're boosting the specificity of it.
And then you have a helper class here
that's just like a very generic selector,
h1, h2, h3.
For some reason, as a generic selector,
you do a background of green.
It's a very terrible example, but
you can see that the green is winning,
even though it's lower
specificity selector,
because the layer the importance
of the layers here.
So it's just to say that don't use layers
to target specific elements and don't
create sub-layers, even though it feels
like this really natural thing to do.
Don't use it to create these different
things, like components and then my cards,
my buttons, my other things,
because it's rare that it happened, but
there's this possibility for conflict,
and it becomes really hard to debug.
The dev tools do show you how
the layers are impacting things.
So it does help, but
just to be careful with that, and
don't treat them as scoping mechanisms.
If you do wanna use scope, scope is
a thing in CSS right now ,you can see it's
limited availability as of
the time of creating this course.
It's kind of cool, it's kind of complex,
so I'm not going to dive into it, but
you can look into that.
That's where you could actually scope
styles to a specific selector, and
they won't bleed out of that,
and scope and
layers could work really well together,
potentially.
Just to say, that could be the next level
if you do need that extra complexity for
the organization of your
project as it grows.